Musicboxd Requirements Review Package  

 

Executive Summary  

Inspired by the popular film rating app Letterboxd, our team’s project is to create a music rating app called Musicboxd. Users can create an account with a unique username and password. 
After an account is made, users will be able to showcase their music taste by rating albums and songs they’ve listened to on a 5-star rating scale.
As part of their profile, users will be able to list their current top four favorite albums as well as their current top five favorite songs for all other users to see. 
Users can edit their favorite albums and songs whenever they’d like to. Profiles will be customizable, users will be able to upload a profile picture and edit the colors of 
their profile to make their profile feel more personal. In addition to rating music albums, users will also be able to leave a short review to tell everyone their thoughts on the album or song. 
Other users can then like the review if they agree with it. Every review posted by a user will remain on their profile for them to have a collection of all the albums and songs they have listened to. 
If a user wishes to, a review can be deleted from their profile. If we have time, our group would also like to add lists as a feature to our app. This feature would allow users to create a list titled
anything, and then users can add any albums or songs to it. For example, a user can create a list on their profile titled “Best albums released in 2025,” and then the user would be able to add any 
albums they’d like to the list. For cycle one, we plan on finishing our user interface including the user’s profile and the search page. Our goal is to have all the profile features previously mentioned complete. 
Additionally, our other delivery goal is to create and maintain databases for the users and reviews. If we have time, we would also like to add the list feature to Cycle 1; however, this feature is not 
essential and can be pushed to Cycle 2 or scrapped completely. Our ultimate vision is to create an app where users can express their thoughts about music and to connect with others with similar music taste. 
Since the demographic of people who like music is huge, we narrowed down our target persona to artsy Gen Z high school and college students. Older generations may find our app appealing, but when thinking of 
Letterboxd’s main demographic, we settled on our target persona being in the 16-26 age range. Specifically, our target persona is a young adult who wants to showcase their music which covers people who love 
mainstream music to people with a more esoteric music taste.  

Requirements  

Functional Requirements 

The system shall allow users to sign up by creating a username and password.  

The system shall allow users to sign in with a username and password.  

Assuming the user is already logged in, the system shall allow the user to add the names and artists of their top four favorite albums to their profile when they click the add album button on their profile. 

Assuming the user is already logged in, the system shall allow the user to add the names and artists of their top five songs to their profile when they click the add song button on their profile. 

Assuming the user is already logged in, the system shall allow the user to rate an album or song using the five-star scale when they click the add review button on their profile. 

Assuming the user is already logged in, the system shall allow the user to change the background color of their profile when they click the modify button on their profile. 

Assuming the user is already logged in, the system shall allow the user to view the history of all their reviews when they click the view reviews button on their profile. 

Assuming the user is already logged in, the system shall allow the user to delete a review of theirs when they click the delete button on a review on their profile.  

Assuming the user is already logged in and has searched for another user, the system shall allow the user to view the other user’s profile when the view profile button is clicked.  

Assuming the user is already logged in and is viewing another user’s profile, the system shall allow the user to like the other user’s reviews.  

Non-Functional Requirements 

The system shall return search results when users search for other users’ profiles in under 1 second 90% of the time.  

The system shall add changes the user makes to their profile in under 1 second 90% of the time.  

The system shall validate the user's credentials and log them in under 3 seconds 90% of the time.  

Use Cases 

Title: user logs into the system  

Actor: registered user  

Goal: access user profile  

Preconditions: user has a valid account 

Main Flow:  

    User enters username and password  

    System validates credentials  

    System displays user profile  

Alternative Flow: invalid credentials – system displays error  

 

Title: user creates an account 

Actor: unregistered user 

Goal: create an account 

Preconditions: user does not have a valid account  

Main Flow:  

    User clicks create account button 

    User enters username and password 

    System displays blank profile for user to customize 

Alternative Flow: user already has an account – system displays error 

 

Title: user enters their top 4 albums  

Actor: registered user  

Goal: user inputs the name and artist of their top 4 albums 

Preconditions: user has an account and a profile set up  

Main Flow:  

    User clicks add album 

    User enters name and artist 

    System displays user input 

    Repeat for each album  

Alternative Flow: user already has albums listed – user deletes previous name and artist and replaces it with new name and artist 

 

Title: user enters their top 5 songs  

Actor: registered user  

Goal: user inputs the name and artist of their top 5 songs  

Preconditions: user has an account and a profile set up  

Main Flow:  

    User clicks add song 

    User enters name and artist 

    System displays user input 

    Repeat for each song  

Alternative Flow: user already has songs listed – user deletes previous name and artist and replaces it with a new song name and artist 

 

Title: user writes a review  

Actor: registered user  

Goal: user rates and writes a review for an album or song 

Preconditions: user has an account  

Main Flow:  

    User clicks write review 

    User enters name and artist 

    User enters the number of stars they want to rate it 

    User enters a brief description of their thoughts  

Alternative Flow: user changes their mind about writing a review – user presses exit button on review, and no review is created  

 

Title: user designs profile  

Actor: registered user  

Goal: user can change the color of their profile  

Preconditions: user has an account  

Main Flow:  

    User clicks edit profile  

    Color options are presented to user 

    User clicked which option they want 

    System updates user’ profile appearance  

Alternative Flow: user changes their mind about changing profile appearance – user clicks exit button on edit profile, and no update is made  

 

Title: user searches for another user  

Actor: registered user  

Goal: user will input another user’s name and search results will appear  

Preconditions: user has an account 

Main Flow:  

    User navigates to the search bar 

    User inputs another user’s name 

    Search results appear 

    User clicks on the profile they want to view 

    The system brings the user to the profile they want to view 
